1: **What is NPM?**
NPM is everything but it is not a node package manager, It does not have a full form so basically NPM manages packages but it does not stands for node package manager

- NPM is a standard repository for all your packages, All the packages are hosted over here. When you create react app it automatically have a npm inside it so you dont have to configure it but in this episode we will see that how our project will make use of npm
- NPM is a package manager for node.js and Javascript. It is use to install, manage, and share open-source code packages written in javascript
- For configuring it in our project we did npm init in terminal and follow all the steps which are coming after completing all of the steps a file name package.json came in our project folder
- Package.json is a configuartion file for NPM, It keeps the track of all the packages/dependecies or code our app is using
- The most important package in our project is "bundler"

2: **What is a bundler?**
When you have these normal HTML,JS, CSS files. Then our whole code needs to be bundled/minified/cleaned/compressed/cahed together before it is send to production so, A bundler helps you do all of these things

- When we say webpack,Parcel and many more, These are the bundlers
- When we create a create-react-app so this create-react-app behind the scene uses webpack and babel bundler.
- In our project we will be using parcel bundler because it is easy to configure, Its upto us which budler to use.
- Suppose if our app is a skeleton with bones then the parcel will give muscles to it, It will give strength so thats how important parcel is to our app
- Parcel comes as a node package so we will install that package by using "npm install -D parcel", now question arises that why we are using -D

3: **What is the difference between the dependencies vs devDependencies?**
These are the two sections in package.json file used to manage project dependencies

- devDependenies: This section lists the pakages required during development and build processees but not needed to run the application in production.
- dependencies: This section lists the packages required for the appication to run in the production environment.

- so basically There are two types of dependencies we can install one is the "dev dependency" and the other is "normal dependency".
- dev dependency is generally required in a development phase and normal dependencies can be used in production also
- so This parcel is a bundler which will do chunking/minification/bundling in development phase, we will not do it in production phase so this is the reason we will install the parcel as dev dependency and use -D in the command of installation to tell npm to install the package as dev dependency
- The symbol before the package version in package.json file "^" is known as "caret" and you can also use "tilde" that is "~"

4: **Difference between caret "^" and tilde "~"?**
the "~" and "^" are known as version specifiers in the "package.json" file to indicate the range of comatible version for a package and for example consider a version "1.3.2" so it has three parts major,minor and patch respectively

- suppose you have installed parcel and after some days version minor upgraded (example 1.2.3 to 1.3.3)so if you are using "caret" before the version then parcel will automatically updates to future minor/patch versions without incrementing major versions(from 1.2.3 to less than 2.0.0).
- In case of "tilde" will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementig the minor versions. ~1.2.3 will use release from 1.2.3 to less than 1.3.0.

5: **What is package.json and package.lock.json and what is the difference between both of them?**
The "package.json" file is a JSON (Javascript Object Notation) file that contains metadata about a node.js project, such as name, version, description, entry points, scripts and dependencies. It is the main configuration file for Node.js and include information that NPM uses to install packages, manage dependencies and run scripts. Developers can manually create and modify the "package.json" file, or can use the "npm init" command to generate it interactively whereas,
"package.lock.json" file is automatically generated by npm when dependencies are added or updated. This file is use to lock down the versions of dependencies

- "package.json" will contain the approax version of the dependencies or packages with a caret or tilde whereas the "package.lock.json" will have the exact version of the package or dependency
- "package.json" is intended for human-readable information and configuration whereas "package.lock.json" is primarily for npm's internal use
- We have a misconception that only one package.json will be present for our app but it is wrong every dependency/package used in our app will have their own package.json file
- if we have installed paracel package then if we check he node modules parcel will be there with its own package.json and if you open package.json you will find that parcel have its own devDependency and normal dependency which means parcel is also dependent on other dependencies/packages and these other packages/dependencies maintain their own package.json and this is known as "transitive dependencies".

6: **what is Parcel/webpack?**
Parcel and Webpack are both popular build tools, also known as bundlers. These are used to bundle, optimize, and prepare web application assets(Javascript,CSS,images, etc) for production deployment. These bundlers handle tasks like transpiling modern javascript code, minification, and code splitting, resulting in optimized and efficient production-ready code.

7: **What is node modules? Is it good idea to push that on git?**
"node_modules" is a directory that contains all the installed dependencies for a Node.js project. It is not necessary to push "node_modules" to Git because it can be easily regenerated by running the "npm install" based on information in "package.json" and "package.lock.json". Pushing "node_modules" would bloat the repository and make cloning the project slower. The best practice is to put the "node_modules" inside "gitignore"

- This "node_modules" contain all the code that we fetch from NPM, when we did "npm install parcel", It just went to the production and fetching all the code of parcel and putting it inside "node_modules".
- As we open the "node_modules" folder we have seen that apart from the parcel that we have installed it has many other things, The reason behind this is our project needs a dependency known as parcel now parcel as a project have its own dependencies and These dependencies can have their own dependencies and so on, This is known as "transitive dependencies".

8: **What is .gitignore? What should we add and not add into it?**
".gitignore" is a file used to specify which files and directories should be excludes from version control when using Git. It is used to avoid tracking unnecessary files, build artifacts, and senstive information. Developers should add files like "node_modules", build output folders, and credentials to the ".gitignore file"

9: **What is npx?**
Just like npm similarly we have npx which means executing a package so suppose if you wnat to execute a package you will write "npx package_name file_name" like we have done "npx parcel index.html" that means we have executed the bundler/parcel and what it do is the parcel will go the source that is index.html and build a development build for our app and it hosts that dev build to localhost:1234.

10: **What is .parcel-cache?**
The ".parcel-cache" directory is used by the parcel bundler to cached compiled assets. It stores intermediate results to speed up subsequent builds by avoiding recompilation of unchanged files. The cache helps improve build performance and reduce processing time.

11: **What is dist folder?**
Te "dist" (short for distribution) folder typically contains the final output files generated after building a project.
It generally includes minified and optimized assets ready for deployment to production.

12: **What is browserlist?**
"browserlist" is a cofiguration file used to specify the list of target browsers and their versions that a project should support. It is used by various tools, like Autoprefixer, to determine which CSS prefixes to include based on the specified browser compatibility.

13: **Why should I not modify package-lock.json?**
Modifying "package-lock.json" directly is discouraged because it is automatically generated and managed by NPM. Manually editing it can lead to inconsistencies and conflicts in the package versions, potentially causing unexpected behaviour in the project.

# _note_: There are two ways to inject react in our app one is using "CDN links" and other is by using "NPM" so basically what is react at the end of the day it is a javascript package ,a javascript code which is hosted over npm also

- The CDN links are not a preferrable way to bring react and reactDOM in our project because
- if I am fetching from CDN it will make a network call to "unpkg.com" and will get react from "unpkg.com"
- suppose if i already have react in my node modules how easy it will be to use react in our project and
- the other reason to not inject react by using CDN links is that if today version is 18 , tomorrow some other version of react came in what will happen is we need to keep changing the urls so it is better to have inside the package.json because it will be easy to manage all dependencies and react also as one of the dependency inside the package.json and we have install it by using "npm install react" and "npm intsall react-dom" in our project.

# Parcel is doing all of the below things

- Dev build
- Local Server
- HMR(Hot Module Replacement)= as soon as we are changing in our code anything it is reflecting so fast on browser so the browser is automatically refreshing, provides real-time updates during development
- File watching algorithn which is written in C++ = It keeps an eye on all these file as soon as we are developing anything or making changes in our code parcel is keeping a track of everything and as soon as you make a change it will building once again
- Caching = Faster builds by doing caching when we install parcel and build our project parcel came into our project and It also took some space and in our code with the name of ".parcel-cache" and it is caching everythinh we do so that the next builds will develop faster
- Image Optimization
- Minification = if we will create a production build It will minify our files also
- Bundling = It will do bundling also
- Compressing = It will compress your codebase by removing all the whitespaces, minification, packing up all your JS files
- Consistent Hashing
- Code spitting
- Diagnostics = if any error comes in your code it will diplays beautiful diagnostics in your terminal and browser.
- Differential Bundling = parcel will give your apps differential bundling which will allow the apps to run smoothly on older versions of browsers as well, so it will give you ability that you have different bundles which can run smoothly on different older browsers by adding some extra things.
- giving good Error Handling
- gives a way to host app on HTTPs = suppose I want to test something which will only works on SSL (Secure Socket layer) that is HTTPs.
- Zero config tool = we just install it and use it in our project.
- Tree Shaking = suppose you have 50 functions in your code and you are just using 4-5 funtions then what parcel do is it will shake the tree means removing all the unused functions/code for you.
- we use "npx parcel build index.html" for creating production build and "npx parcel index.html" for development build which will create a dist folder in which mainly three files are present "index.html", "index.css" and index.js" which will contain all of the minified/compressed/cached code
  -".parcel-cache" and "dist" can be regenerated so we will not put it in github, instead we will be adding them in ".gitignore".

  # note

  - Browserslist is a powerful tool which you can add in your app so that your app is compatible with the older versions of browser by specifying in package.json
